\input texinfo	        @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %** start of header
@setfilename ebfont.info
@settitle ebfont
@c %** end of header

@include ebfont-ver.texi

@dircategory CD-ROM Book Utilities
@direntry
* ebfont: (ebfont).             Get font data in a CD-ROM book.
@end direntry

@ifinfo
ebfont: Utility for getting font data in a CD-ROM book, by Motoyuki Kasahara.

Copyright @copyright{} 1998, 99, 2000  Motoyuki Kasahara

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title ebfont
@subtitle Utility for getting font data in a CD-ROM book.
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION} for EB Library version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author by Motoyuki Kasahara

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1998, 99, 2000  Motoyuki Kasahara

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end titlepage

@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@ifinfo
This is edition @value{EDITION}, for EB Library version @value{VERSION}.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Introduction::                Introduction.
* What is Local Character::     What is Local Character?
* Invoking ebfont::             Invoking @code{ebfont}.
* Summary of Options::          Summary of Options to @code{ebfont}.

 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Invoking @code{ebfont}

* Image Formats::               Image Formats.
* Heights::                     Heights.
* Subbooks::                    Subbooks.
@end menu

@c ===================================================================
@node Introduction, What is Local Character, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

The @code{ebfont} command reads the bitmap data of the local defined
characters in a CD-ROM book, convert them to specified image formats,
and write them to files.
@code{ebfont} uses EB Library and it is distributed with the library.

@code{ebfont} is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.

@code{ebfont} is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but @emph{without any warranty}; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

This is edition @value{EDITION}, for EB Library version @value{VERSION}.

@c ===================================================================
@node What is Local Character, Invoking ebfont, Introduction, Top
@chapter What is Local Character?

Many CD-ROM books define their local characters.
For example, some English Japanese dictionaries define pronunciation
marks as the local characters because the character set used in CD-ROM
books doesn't have pronunciation marks.

CD-ROM books also have bitmap data of the local characters.
The @code{ebfont} command reads the bitmap data, convert them to a
specified image formats, and write them to files.
@code{ebfont} can generates image files as XBM (X BitMap format), XPM
(X PixMap format) and/or GIF (Graphics Interchange Format).
By default, XBM format is selected.

Local characters are classified to two types; @dfn{narrow} and @dfn{wide}.
In narrow type characters, the height of the bitmap data is about half
of its width.
In wide type characters, the width and height of the bitmap data are
almost same.
A CD-ROM book can defines local characters of both types.

The internal fomrat specification of CD-ROM book defines four heights
for local characters, for both narrow and wide types.
Their witdths, heights and sizes are follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .33 .33 .33
@item height  @tab  narrow  @tab  wide
@item 16      @tab   8x16   @tab  16x16
@item 24      @tab  16x24   @tab  24x24
@item 30      @tab  16x30   @tab  32x30
@item 48      @tab  24x48   @tab  48x48
@end multitable

@noindent
By deafult, @code{ebfont} generates image files for fonts with the
height of 16 pixels.

@c ===================================================================
@node Invoking ebfont, Summary of Options, What is Local Character, Top
@chapter Invoking @code{ebfont}

Its usual way to invoke @code{ebfont} is as follows:

@example
% ebfont @var{book-path}
@end example

@noindent
@var{book-path} points to the top directory of a CD-ROM book where
the file @file{CATALOG} or @file{CATALOGS} resides.
Though you cannot specify two or more book-paths, 
you can omit book-path like as follows:

@example
% ebfont
@end example

@noindent
In this case, it is assumed that the current working directory
(@file{.}) is specified.

@code{ebfont} generates image files under the current directory.
The generic forms of their filenames are:

@example
@group
@var{subbook}/@var{height}/narrow/@var{character-number}.@var{suffix}
@var{subbook}/@var{height}/wide/@var{character-number}.@var{suffix}
@end group
@end example

@noindent
The @var{suffix} is @samp{xbm}, @samp{xpm} or @samp{gif}.
The @var{character-number} is a hexadecimal number with 4 digits
(@samp{0} to @samp{9}, and @samp{a} to @samp{f}), like this:

@example
@group
EJDICT/16/narrow/a121.xbm
EJDICT/16/wide/a321.xbm
@end group
@end example

@noindent
The intermediate directories such as @file{EJDICT/16/xbm/narrow} are
created by @code{ebfont} if missing.

@code{ebfont} can outputs image files not only under the current
directory but also any directory by the @samp{--output-directory} option.
The top directory must have been created before invoking @code{ebfont}.

@example
% ebfont --output-directory @var{directory} @var{book-path}
@end example

@menu
* Image Formats::               Image Formats.
* Heights::                     Heights.
* Subbooks::                    Subbooks.
@end menu

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Image Formats, Heights, Invoking ebfont, Invoking ebfont
@section Image Formats

@code{ebfont} can generates image files of XBM, XPM and GIF (GIF89a)
formats.
These image formats are specified at the @samp{--image-format} (@samp{-i})
option.
The @samp{--image-format} option takes an argument which is a list of
image format mames separeted by a comma (@samp{,}).
For example, @code{ebfont} generates image files of XPM and GIF formats
by the following command:

@example
% ebfont --image-format xpm,gif @var{book-path}
@end example

@noindent
An argument to @samp{--image-format} can be splitted like as follows:

@example
% ebfont --image-format xpm --image-format gif @var{book-path}
@end example

@noindent
In the XPM and GIF formats, the foreground and background colors of 
images are black (@samp{#000000} in RGB) and transparency.
@code{ebzip} generates GIF images without LZW compression algolythm,
so that the their sizes are too fat.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Heights, Subbooks, Image Formats, Invoking ebfont
@section Heights

By deafult, @code{ebfont} generates image files for narrow and wide
fonts with the height of 16 pixels.
The @samp{--font-height} (@samp{-f}) option allows you to generate
image files of fonts with other heights.
The @samp{--font-height} option takes an argument which is a list of
font heights separeted by a comma (@samp{,}).
The font height must be @samp{16}, @samp{24}, @samp{30} and @samp{48}. 
For example, @code{ebfont} generates image files of fonts with the heights
of 16 and 24 pixels by the following command:

@example
% ebfont --font-height 16,24 @var{book-path}
@end example

@noindent
An argument to @samp{--font-height} can be splitted like as follows:

@example
% ebfont --font-height 16 --font-height 24 @var{book-path}
@end example

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Subbooks,  , Heights, Invoking ebfont
@section Subbooks

@code{ebfont} generates image files for all subbooks by default,
but the @samp{--subbook} (@samp{-S}) option allows you to generates
image files for specified subbooks only.

The @samp{--subbook} option takes an argument which is a list of
directory names of subbooks to be compressed, separeted by a comma
(@samp{,}).
The @code{ebinfo} command tells you what subbooks your book contains
and what their directory names are.

@example
@group
% ebinfo /mnt/cdrom
disc type: EB/EBG/EBXA/EXBA-C/S-EBXA
character code: JIS X 0208
the number of subbooks: 3

@end group
@group
subbook 1:
  title: New English Japanese Dictionary (4th edition)
  directory: ENGLISH
  search methods: word endword keyword menu
  font sizes: 16 24 30 48
  narrow font characters: 0xa121 -- 0xa24e
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa27e

@end group
@group
subbook 2:
  title: CD-ROM French Japanese Dictionary (3rd edition)
  directory: FRENCH
  search methods: word endword keyword menu
  font sizes: 16 24 30 48
  narrow font characters: 
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa27e

@end group
@group
subbook 3:
  title: Pocket German Japanese Dictionary (3rd edition)
  directory: GERMAN
  search methods: menu
  font sizes: 16 24 30 48
  narrow font characters: 
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa27e
@end group
@end example

@noindent
(@xref{Invoking ebinfo, , Invoking @code{ebinfo}, ebinfo, ebinfo},
for more details about the @code{ebinfo} command).
@*
In this example, there are three subbooks in the book, and their
directory names are @code{ENGLISH}, @code{FRENCH} and @code{GERMAN}.

Inkoing the following command, @code{ebfont} generates image files for
@code{ENGLISH} and @code{FRENCH} only.

@example
% ebfont --subbook english,french /mnt/cdrom
@end example

@noindent
Case of the directory names are not sensitve.
An argument to @samp{--subbook} can be splitted like as follows:

@example
% ebfont --subbook english --subbook french /mnt/cdrom
@end example

@c ===================================================================
@node Summary of Options,  , Invoking ebfont, Top
@chapter Summary of @code{ebfont} Options

The @code{ebfont} command supports both traditional single-letter
options and mnemonic long option names.
Long option names are indicated with @samp{--} instead of @samp{-}.
Abbreviations for option names are allowed as long as they are unique.

@table @code
@item -d
@itemx --debug
Print debugging information to standard error.

@item -f @var{heights}
@itemx --font-height @var{heights}
Generate image files of local characters with @var{heights}.
@var{heights} must be a list of heights separated by a comma
(@samp{,}).
The valid heights are @samp{16}, @samp{24}, @samp{30} and @samp{48}.
By default, @code{ebfont} generates fonts with a height of 16 pixels.
(@xref{Heights}, for more details).

@item -h
@itemx --help
Output help message to standard out, then exit.

@item -i @var{formats}
@itemx --image-format @var{formats}
Generates image files as @var{formats}.
@var{formats} must be a list of format names separated by a comma
(@samp{,}).
Supported format names are @samp{xbm}, @samp{xpm}, and @samp{gif}.
By default, @samp{ebfont} generates image files as XBM format.
(@xref{Image Formats}, for more details).

@item -o @var{directory}
@itemx --output-directory @var{directory}
Output image files under @var{directory}.
By default, @code{ebfont} generates image files under the current working
directory (@code{.}).
(@xref{Invoking ebfont}, for more details).

@item -S @var{subbooks}
@itemx --subbook @var{subbooks}
Specify target subbooks in which @code{ebfont} generates local characters.
@var{subbooks} must be a list of directory names of subbooks separeted
by a comma (@samp{,}).
By default, all subbooks are specified as target.
(@xref{Subbooks}, for more details).

@item -v
@itemx --version
Output version number to standard out, then exit.
@end table

@c ===================================================================
@contents
@bye
