\input texinfo	        @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %** start of header
@setfilename ebinfo.info
@settitle ebinfo
@c %** end of header

@include version-ebinfo.texi

@dircategory CD-ROM Book Utilities
@direntry
* ebinfo: (ebinfo).             Get CD-ROM book information.
@end direntry

@ifinfo
ebinfo: Utility for getting CD-ROM book information, by Motoyuki Kasahara.

Copyright @copyright{} 1997, 98, 99, 2000, 01  Motoyuki Kasahara

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title ebinfo
@subtitle Utility for getting CD-ROM book information.
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION} for EB Library version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author by Motoyuki Kasahara

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1997, 98, 99, 2000, 01  Motoyuki Kasahara

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end titlepage

@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@ifinfo
This is edition @value{EDITION}, for EB Library version @value{VERSION}.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Introduction::                Introduction.
* Invoke ebinfo::               Invoke @code{ebinfo}
* Details about Information::   Details about Information
* Book list on EBNET server::   Book list on an EBNET server
* Options to ebinfo::           Options to @code{ebinfo}
@end menu

@c ===================================================================
@node Introduction, Invoke ebinfo, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

The @code{ebinfo} command outputs various information about a CD-ROM book.
@code{ebinfo} uses EB Library and it is distributed with the library.

@code{ebinfo} is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.

@code{ebinfo} is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but @emph{without any warranty}; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

This is edition @value{EDITION}, for EB Library version @value{VERSION}.

@c ===================================================================
@node Invoke ebinfo, Details about Information, Introduction, Top
@chapter Invoke @code{ebinfo}

Its usual way to invoke @code{ebinfo} is as follows:

@example
% ebinfo @var{book-path}
@end example

@noindent
@var{book-path} points to the top directory of a CD-ROM book where
the file @file{catalog} or @file{catalogs} resides.
It may be a local path (e.g. @samp{/mnt/dict}) or a remote access
identifier (e.g. @samp{ebnet://localhost/dict}).
Though you cannot specify two or more book-paths, 
you can omit book-path like as follows:

@example
% ebinfo
@end example

@noindent
In this case, @code{ebinfo} assumes that the current working directory
(@file{.}) is specified.
@code{ebinfo} outputs information about the specified book like as
follows:

@example
@group
% ebinfo /mnt/cdrom
disc type: EB/EBG/EBXA/EBXA-C/S-EBXA
character code: JIS X 0208
the number of subbooks: 2

@end group
@group
subbook 1:
  title: New English Japanese Dictionary (3rd edition)
  directory: ejdict
  search methods: word endword keyword menu
  font sizes: 16 24 30 48
  narrow font characters: 0xa121 -- 0xa24e
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa27e

@end group
@group
subbook 2:
  title: How to use the book
  directory: howto
  search methods: word endword keyword menu
  font sizes: 16 24 30 48
  narrow font characters: 
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa27e
@end group
@end example

If a subbook in the book supports multi-search, @code{ebinfo} also
outputs detail information about multi-search by specifying the
@samp{--multi-search} (or @samp{-m}) option.
The mulit-search information is like as follows.

@example
@group
  multi search 1:
    label 1: country or region
      with candidates: yes
    label 2: period
      with candidates: no
    label 3: category
      with candidates: yes
    label 4: authority
      with candidates: no
@end group
@group
  multi search 2:
    label 1: author
      with candidates: no
    label 2: title
      with candidates: no
    label 3: date
      with candidates: no
    label 4: publisher
      with candidates: no
@end group
@end example

@c ===================================================================
@node Details about Information, Book list on EBNET server, Invoke ebinfo, Top
@chapter Details about Information

This section explains details about information output by ebinfo.

@table @asis
@item disc type:
Disc format of the book; EB/EBG/EBXA/EBXA-C/S-EBXA or EPWING.

@item character code:
Character code used in the book; ISO 8859-1 or JIS X 0208.

@item the number of subbooks:
How many subbooks the book has.
@end table

In addition, the following items are displayed for each subbook in the
book.

@table @asis
@item title:
Title of the subbook.
If the books is written in JIS X 0208, the output title is written in
Japanese EUC (Extended UNIX Code).

@item directory:
Directory name of a directory under which files of the subbook resides.
Lower case letters in the directory name are converted to upper case.

@item search methods:
A list of search methods the subbook supports.
The list consists of a part or all of the following items:

@table @asis
@item copyright
copyright notice.
Exactly to say, this is not a search method, but we list it here in
the point view of internal format of CD-ROM book.

@item word
Word search.

@item endword
Endword search.

@item keyword
Keyword search.

@item multi
Multi search.

@item menu
Menu search.

@item graphic
Graphic search.

@end table

@item font sizes:
A list of sizes which of fonts the subook has.
The list consists of a part or all of the four items; 16, 24, 30 and 48.

@item narrow font characters:
Range of character numbers of a narrow font defined in the subbook.

@item wide font characters:
Range of character numbers of a wide font defined in the subbook.

@end table

@c ===================================================================
@node Book list on EBNET server, Options to ebinfo, Details about Information, Top
@chapter Book list on an EBNET server

Instead of usual output, @code{ebinfo} can output a list of books that
an EBNET server provides.
Summary of its command line usage is:

@example
% ebinfo --book-list @var{remote-server-identifier}
@end example

@noindent
where @var{remote-server-identifier} must be a remote access identifier
without book name.
For example, 

@example
@group
% ebinfo --book-list ebnet://dict.example.com
Name             Title
encycl           Brown Concise Encyclopedia
encycl.app       Brown Concise Encyclopedia (appendix)
crossword        Crossword Puzzle Dictionary
travel           World Travel Guide
@end group
@end example

@noindent
An entry whose name ends with @samp{.app} in the list is an appendix,
and others are books.
Note that EBNET server doesn't show books and appendixes not permitted
to be accessed from the client.

@example
@group
% ebinfo ebnet://dict.example.com/cncyclopedia
disc type: EB/EBG/EBXA/EBXA-C/S-EBXA
character code: ISO 8859-1
the number of subbooks: 1

@end group
@group
subbook 1:
  title: Brown Concise Encyclopedia
  directory: brown
  search methods: word endword keyword multi menu
  font sizes: 16 24
  narrow font characters: 0xa121 -- 0xa452
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa452
@end group
@end example

@c ===================================================================
@node Options to ebinfo,  , Book list on EBNET server, Top
@chapter @code{ebinfo} Options

The @code{ebinfo} command supports both traditional single-letter
options and mnemonic long option names.
Long option names are indicated with @samp{--} instead of @samp{-}.
Abbreviations for option names are allowed as long as they are unique.

@table @code
@item -h
@itemx --help
Output help message to standard out, then exit.

@item -l
@itemx --book-list
Suppress normal output; instead output a list of books that an EBNET
server provides.
@var{book-path} command line argument must be a remote access identifer.

@item -m
@itemx --multi-search
Also output information about multi search.

@item -v
@itemx --version
Output version number to standard out, then exit.
@end table

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@contents
@bye
