\input texinfo	        @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %** start of header
@setfilename ebzip.info
@settitle ebzip
@c %** end of header

@include ebzip-ver.texi

@dircategory CD-ROM Book Utilities
@direntry
* ebzip: (ebzip).               Compress and uncompress a CD-ROM book.
@end direntry

@ifinfo
ebzip: Utility for compressing and uncompressing CD-ROM books, by Motoyuki Kasahara.

Copyright @copyright{} 1998  Motoyuki Kasahara

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title ebzip
@subtitle Utility for compressing and uncompressing a CD-ROM book.
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION} for EB Library version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author by Motoyuki Kasahara

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1998  Motoyuki Kasahara

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end titlepage

@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@ifinfo
This is edition @value{EDITION}, for EB Library version @value{VERSION}.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Introduction::                Introduction.
* Action and Command Name::     Action and Command Name.
* Invoking ebzip::              Invoking @code{ebzip}.
* Compression::                 About the Compression Action.
* Uncompression::               About the Uncompression Action.
* Information::                 About the Information Action.
* Delete a Book::               Delete a Book.
* Summary of Options::          Summary of Options to @code{ebzip}.
* Comparision Result::          Comparision of Compression Results.
* Compressed File Format::      Compressed File Format.

 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Compression

* Compression Example 1::       Example of Compression (1).
* Compression Example 2::       Example of Compression (2).
* Compression Level::           Compression Level.
* Adjust Filenames::            Adjust Filenames.
* Test::                        Test.
* Partial Compression::         Partial Compression.
* Overwrite Old Files::         Overwrite Old Files.

Uncompression

* Uncompression Example::       Example of Uncompression.
* Options for Uncompression::   Options for Uncompression.

Information

* Information Example::         Example of Information.
* Options for Information::     Options for Information.

Compressed File Format

* Format Overview::             Overview about Compression File Format
* Data Part::                   Data Part
* Index Part::                  Index Part
* Header Part::                 Header Part
@end menu

@c ===================================================================
@node Introduction, Action and Command Name, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

@code{ebzip} is a command to compress/uncompress CD-ROM books for 
EB Library applications.
EB Library applications can access compressed CD-ROM books without
any functional restriction.
(But, their access speed to compressed books may be slower than that
to original books.)
Since the compression data format is independent of CPU type,
operating system, and file system, files compressed by @code{ebzip}
can be interchanged.
The @code{ebzip} command is distributed with EB Library.

@code{ebzip} is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.

@code{ebzip} is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but @emph{without any warranty}; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

In addition, you must follow the licenses of your CD-ROM books.
Though @code{ebzip} is free software, your books may not be free.
If the publishers of your CD-ROM don't permit to copy the book onto a
hard disk (nor other strage devices), please give up compress the book.

This is edition @value{EDITION}, for EB Library version @value{VERSION}.

@c ===================================================================
@node Action and Command Name, Invoking ebzip, Introduction, Top
@chapter Action and Command Name

@code{ebzip} has three @dfn{action} modes; compression, uncompression
and information.

@itemize @bullet
@item compression
@*
Compress a CD-ROM book.

@item uncompression
@*
Uncompress a CD-ROM book compressed by @code{ebzip}.

@item information
@*
Output information about compression status of a CD-ROM book compressed
by @code{ebzip}.

@end itemize

@noindent
When @code{ebzip} is invoked, the action is determined by invoked
name of the @code{ebzip} command and command line options to
@code{ebzip}.
The action is never changed during an execution of @code{ebzip}.
@code{ebzip} has installed with three different names; @code{ebzip},
@code{ebunzip} and @code{ebzipinfo}.
Usually, they are hard-linked like as follows:

@example
@group
% ls -li ebzip ebunzip ebzipinfo
38787 -rwxr-xr-x  3 bin   bin     73728 Jun 27 22:48 ebunzip
38787 -rwxr-xr-x  3 bin   bin     73728 Jun 27 22:48 ebzip
38787 -rwxr-xr-x  3 bin   bin     73728 Jun 27 22:48 ebzipinfo
@end group
@end example

@noindent
When it is invoked as @code{ebunzip}, the default action is uncompression.
When it is invoked as @code{ebzipinfo}, information is the default
action.
Otherwise, the default action is compression.

In addition, you can specify the action by the command line options;
@samp{--compress} (@samp{-z}), @samp{--uncompress} (@samp{-u}) and
@samp{--information} (@samp{-i}).
They are prior to invoked names.
In the following example, all lines are equivalent:

@example
@group
ebunzip
ebzip --uncompress
ebzipinfo --uncompress
@end group
@end example

@c ===================================================================
@node Invoking ebzip, Compression, Action and Command Name, Top
@chapter Invoking @code{ebzip}

Its usual way to invoke @code{ebzip}, @code{ebunzip} and @code{ebzipinfo}
are as follows:

@example
@group
% ebzip @var{book-path}
% ebunzip @var{book-path}
% ebzipinfo @var{book-path}
@end group
@end example

@noindent
@var{book-path} points to the top directory of a CD-ROM book where
the file @file{CATALOG} or @file{CATALOGS} resides.
@code{ebzip} compresses a book at @var{book-path},
@code{ebunzip} uncompresses a book at @var{book-path},
and @code{ebzipinfo} outputs information about a book at @var{book-path}.

Though you cannot specify two or more book-paths, 
you can omit book-path like as follows:

@example
@group
% ebzip
% ebunzip
% ebzipinfo
@end group
@end example

@noindent
In this case, it is assumed that the current working directory
(@file{.}) is specified.

@c ===================================================================
@node Compression, Uncompression, Invoking ebzip, Top
@chapter Compression

@code{ebzip} (equivalent to @code{ebunzip --compress} and
@code{ebzipinfo --compress}) compresses a CD-ROM book.

@menu
* Compression Example 1::       Example of Compression (1).
* Compression Example 2::       Example of Compression (2).
* Compression Level::           Compression Level.
* Adjust Filenames::            Adjust Filenames.
* Test::                        Test.
* Partial Compression::         Partial Compression.
* Overwrite Old Files::         Overwrite Old Files.
@end menu

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Compression Example 1, Compression Example 2, Compression, Compression
@section Example of Compression (1)

This section explains how to compress your CD-ROM book which has
already copied on a hard disk.
Supporse that you have already copied a CD-ROM book to @file{/dict}
on a hard disk, but it is not compressed.
The book has the following files under @file{/dict}.

@example
@group
/dict/catalog
/dict/language
/dict/kanji/start
/dict/english/start
@end group
@end example

@noindent
You can compress the book by the following way:

@example
% cd /dict
% ebzip
@end example

@noindent
This is equivalent to:

@example
% ebzip --output-directory /dict /dict
@end example

@noindent
Compression may take a while.
@code{ebzip} outputs status messages during the compression like as
follows:

@example
@group
==> compress /dict/kanji/start <==
output to ./dict/kanji/start.ebz
 1.4% done: 2097152 -> 941887 bytes (44.9%)
 2.7% done: 4194304 -> 1865181 bytes (44.5%)
 4.1% done: 6291456 -> 2728150 bytes (43.4%)
        : (snip)
total: 154290176 -> 54881862 bytes (35.6%)
@end group
@end example

@noindent
When the compression has done, the directory structure under
@file{/dict} is slightly changed.

@example
@group
/dict/catalog
/dict/language.ebz
/dict/kanji/start.ebz
/dict/english/start.ebz
@end group
@end example

@noindent
The suffix @samp{.ebz} is added to the some files (@file{/dict/language.ebz},
@file{/dict/kanji/start.ebz} and @file{/dict/english/start.ebz}).
They are compressed files.
Other files are unchanged.

@code{ebzip} compresses the following files; @file{START}, @file{HONMON},
@file{LANGUAGE}, and font files under the @file{GAIJI} directories.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Compression Example 2, Compression Level, Compression Example 1, Compression
@section Example of Compression (2)

This section shows another example.
This section explains how to compress files in a CD-ROM disc and
put them onto a hard disk.
Suppose that and original CD-ROM book is mounted on @file{/cdrom}
and that the book has the following files under @file{/cdrom}.

@example
@group
/cdrom/catalog
/cdrom/language
/cdrom/german/start
/cdrom/french/start
/cdrom/italian/start
@end group
@end example

Execute the following commands to compress the book an put it on
@file{/dict}:

@example
@group
% cd /dict
% ebzip --keep /cdrom
@end group
@end example

@noindent
This is equivalent to:

@example
% ebzip --keep --output-directory /dict /cdrom
@end example

@noindent
Please note that the output directory @file{/dict} may be empty, but
it must have been created before compression.
In this example, the @samp{--keep} option is used.
By default, @code{ebzip} deletes original files after compression, but
the @samp{--keep} option disables this behavior.

The directory strcture under @file{/dict} and @file{/cdrom} are almost
same, but the suffix @samp{.ebz} is added to the compressed files
under @file{/dict}.

@example
@group
/dict/catalog
/dict/language.ebz
/dict/german/start.ebz
/dict/french/start.ebz
/dict/italian/start.ebz
@end group
@end example

@noindent
The intermediate directories, @file{/dict/german}, @file{/dict/french}
and @file{/dict/italian}, are created by @code{ebzip} if missing.
@file{CATALOG} and @file{CATALOGS} are simply copied to the output
directory.
@code{ebzip} ignores files and directories not supported by EB Library.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Compression Level, Adjust Filenames, Compression Example 2, Compression
@section Compression Level

@code{ebzip} supports four compression levels, from 0 to 3.
The compression level 0 is the fastest compression/uncompression method,
but it is the worst compression method.
The compression level 3 is the best compression method but it is the
slowest compression/uncompression method.
The compression level is set by the @samp{--level} (@samp{-l}) option.

@example
% ebzip --level 2 --output-directory /dict /dict
@end example

@noindent
The default level is 0 (fastest but worst).

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Adjust Filenames, Test, Compression Level, Compression
@section Adjust Filenames

Let's go back to the previous example.
Again, supporsed that you have already copied a CD-ROM book to @file{/dict}
on a hard disk, but it is not compressed.
The book has the following files under @file{/dict}.
However, unlike the previous example, file and directory names under
@file{/dict} consist of upper case letters, and filenames have the
version number @samp{;1} in their tails.

@example
@group
/dict/CATALOG;1
/dict/LANGUAGE;1
/dict/GERMAN/START;1
/dict/FRENCH/START;1
/dict/ITALIAN/START;1
@end group
@end example

After the compression by @code{ebzip}, they will be as the following:

@example
@group
/dict/CATALOG;1
/dict/LANGUAGE.EBZ;1
/dict/GERMAN/START.EBZ;1
/dict/FRENCH/START.EBZ;1
/dict/ITALIAN/START.EBZ;1
@end group
@end example

@noindent
@code{ebzip} keeps @dfn{case} (upper or lower) and @dfn{suffix} of
filenames as original form.
The following table displayes how a filename of @file{start} file changes.

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .3 .3
@item case/suffix       @tab before compression @tab after compresssion
@item lower/none        @tab start              @tab start.ebz
@item lower/dot         @tab start.             @tab start.ebz
@item lower/version     @tab start;1            @tab start.ebz;1
@item lower/dot+version @tab start.;1           @tab start.ebz;1
@item upper/none        @tab START              @tab START.EBZ
@item upper/dot         @tab START.             @tab START.EBZ
@item upper/version     @tab START;1            @tab START.EBZ;1
@item upper/dot+version @tab START.;1           @tab START.EBZ;1
@end multitable

The @samp{--case} and @samp{--suffix} options allows you to
modify these case and suffix styles of output filenames.
The @samp{--case} option takes an argument, and it must be @samp{upper}
or @samp{lower}.
The option sets the case of output filenames to upper or lower.
Also the @samp{--suffix} option takes an argument, and it must be
@samp{none}, @samp{dot}, @samp{version} or @samp{both}.
The option sets the suffix style of output filenames to none, dot,
version or both (dot+version).

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Test, Partial Compression, Adjust Filenames, Compression
@section Test

Invoking @code{ebzip} with the @code{--test} (@code{-t}) option,
@code{ebzip} doesn't write compressed data to actual files.
This is usuful when you want to know the sizes of compressed files
before compression.

@example
% ebzip --test /dict /dict
@end example

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Partial Compression, Overwrite Old Files, Test, Compression
@section Partial Compression

@code{ebzip} compresses an entire book by default,
but the @samp{--subbook} (@samp{-S}) option allows you to compress
specified subbooks only.

The @samp{--subbook} option takes an argument which is a list of
directory names of subbooks to be compressed, separeted by a comma
(@samp{,}).
The @code{ebinfo} command tells you what subbooks your book contains
and what their directory names are.

@example
@group
% ebinfo /mnt/cdrom
disc type: EB/EBG/EBXA
character code: JIS X 0208
the number of subbooks: 3
@end group

@group
subbook 1:
  title: New English Japanese Dictionary (4th edition)
  directory: ENGLISH
  search methods: word endword keyword menu
  font sizes: 16 24 30 48
  narrow font characters: 0xa121 -- 0xa24e
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa27e

@end group
@group
subbook 2:
  title: CD-ROM French Japanese Dictionary (3rd edition)
  directory: FRENCH
  search methods: word endword keyword menu
  font sizes: 16 24 30 48
  narrow font characters: 
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa27e

@end group
@group
subbook 3:
  title: Pocket German Japanese Dictionary (3rd edition)
  directory: GERMAN
  search methods: menu
  font sizes: 16 24 30 48
  narrow font characters: 
  wide font characters: 0xa321 -- 0xa27e
@end group
@end example

@noindent
(@xref{Invoking ebinfo, , Invoking @code{ebinfo}, ebinfo, ebinfo},
for more details about the @code{ebinfo} command).
@*
In this example, there are three subbooks in the book, and their
directory names are @code{ENGLISH}, @code{FRENCH} and @code{GERMAN}.

You can compress only @code{ENGLISH} and @code{FRENCH} by the following
way:

@example
% ebzip --subbook english,french /dict
@end example

@noindent
Case of the directory names are not sensitve.
An argument to @samp{--subbook} can be splitted like as follows:

@example
% ebzip --subbook english --subbook french /dict
@end example

@noindent
Files in the rest subbooks (@code{GERMAN} in this example) are not
compressed nor copied, so that the compression procedure is incompleted
at this point.
In order to use the book, you must compress the rest subbooks in a
further operation, or deletes the rest subbooks from a subbook list in
the @file{CATALOG(S)} file by using the @code{ebrefile} command
(@xref{Combination with ebzip, , Combination with @code{ebzip}, ebrefile,
ebrefile}, for more details).
You can compress subbooks with different compression levels
(e.g. compress @code{ENGLISH} and @code{FRENCH} with level 0, and 
compress @code{GERMAN} with level 2).

Regardless of the @samp{--subbook} option, the @file{LANGUAGE} file is
always compressed.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Overwrite Old Files,  , Partial Compression, Compression
@section Overwrite Old Files

@code{ebzip} asks you whether a file may be overwritten or not when the
file already exists.

@example
@group
==> compress /dict/science/data/honmon <==
output to /dict/science/data/honmon.ebz

the file already exists: /dict/science/data/honmon.ebz
do you wish to overwrite (y or n)? 
@end group
@end example

@noindent
Please answer @samp{y} or @samp{n}.
If you answer as @samp{n}, @code{ebzip} skips the file.

When the @samp{--force-overwrite} option is specified, @code{ebzip}
overwrites existed files without confirmation.
Similary, when the @samp{--no-overwrite} option is specified,
@code{ebzip} skips the file without confirmation.

@c ===================================================================
@node Uncompression, Information, Compression, Top
@chapter Uncompression

@code{ebunzip} (equivalent to @code{ebzip --uncompress} and
@code{ebzipinfo --uncompress}) uncompresses a CD-ROM book compressed
by @code{ebzip}.

@menu
* Uncompression Example::       Example of Uncompression.
* Options for Uncompression::   Options for Uncompression.
@end menu

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Uncompression Example, Options for Uncompression, Uncompression, Uncompression
@section Example of Uncompression 

Uncompression procedure is closely similar to compression.
Suppose that a compressed subbook resides under @file{/dict}.
The book has the following files under @file{/dict}.

@example
@group
/dict/catalog
/dict/language.ebz
/dict/kanji/start.ebz
/dict/english/start.ebz
@end group
@end example

@noindent
Execute the following command to uncompress the book:

@example
% cd /dict
% ebunzip
@end example

@noindent
This is equivalent to:

@example
% ebunzip --output-directory /dict /dict
@end example

@noindent
Uncompression may take a while.
@code{ebunzip} outputs status messages during the uncompression like
as follows:

@example
@group
==> uncompress /dict/kanji/start.ebz <==
output to ./kanji/start.ebz
 1.4% done: 941887 -> 2097152 bytes
 2.7% done: 1865181 -> 4194304 bytes
 4.1% done: 2728150 -> 6291456 bytes
        : (snip)
total: 54881862 -> 154290176 bytes
@end group
@end example

@noindent
During the uncompression, @code{ebunzip} asks you whether an existed file
may be overwritten or not:

@example
@group
==> uncompress /dict/kanji/start.ebz <==
output to /dict/kanji/start

the file already exists: /dict/kanji/start
do you wish to overwrite (y or n)? 
@end group
@end example

@noindent
When the uncompression has done, the directory structure under
@file{dict} is slightly changed.

@example
@group
/dict/catalog
/dict/language
/dict/kanji/start
/dict/english/start
@end group
@end example

@noindent
Uncompressed files change their filenames;
the suffix @samp{.ebz} is removed from them.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Options for Uncompression,  , Uncompression Example, Uncompression
@section Options for Uncompression

Most options have the same meanings at compression and uncompression.

When the @samp{--keep} option is specified, @code{ebunzip} doesn't
delete compressed files after uncompression.

Invoking @code{ebunzip} with the @samp{--test} option, @code{ebunzip}
doesn't write uncompressed data to acutual files.
This option is usuful for checking validity of compressed files.
@xref{Test}, for more details about the @samp{--test} option.

When the @samp{--subbook} is specified, @code{ebunzip} only uncompresses
specified subbooks, in addition with @file{LANGUAGE}.
@xref{Partial Compression}, for more details about the @samp{--subbook}
option.

When the @samp{--force-overwrite} or @samp{--no-overwrite} option is
specified, @code{ebunzip} overwrites or skips files without confirmation
for overwriting.
@xref{Overwrite Old Files}, for more details about the
@samp{--force-overwrite} and @samp{--no-overwrite} options.

By default, case (upper or lower) and suffix styles of filenames of
uncompressed files are the same as those of compressed files.
The @samp{--case} and @samp{--suffix} options allows you to modify
the case and suffix styles of filenames of uncompressed files.
@xref{Adjust Filenames}, for more details about the @samp{--case} and 
@samp{--suffix} options.

@code{ebunzip} ignores the @samp{--level} option.
You don't have to specify the @samp{--level} option at uncompression.

@c ===================================================================
@node Information, Delete a Book, Uncompression, Top
@chapter Information

@code{ebzipinfo} (equivalent to @code{ebzip --information} and
@code{ebunzip --information}) outputs information about compression
status of a CD-ROM book.

@menu
* Information Example::         Example of Information.
* Options for Information::     Options for Information.
@end menu

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Information Example, Options for Information, Information, Information
@section Example of Information

Please type the following commands to output information of the
compressed CD-ROM book at @file{/dict}.

@example
% ebzipifo /dict
@end example

@noindent
@code{ebzipinfo} outputs information to standard out like as following:

@example
@group
==> /dict/spanish/spanish/start.ebz <==
compressed: 154290176 -> 54881862 bytes (35.6%)
compresssion level: 0

@end group
@group
==> /dict/spanish/language.ebz <==
compressed: 12288 -> 4121 bytes (33.5%)
compresssion level: 0

@end group
@group
==> /dict/spanish/catalog <==
not compressed
@end group
@end example

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Options for Information,  , Information Example, Information
@section Options for Information

When you invoke @code{ebzipinfo} with the @samp{--subbook} option, 
@code{ebzipinfo} outputs information about files of the specified subbooks
only, in addition with @file{LANGUAGE}, @file{CATALOG} and @file{CATALOGS}.
@xref{Partial Compression}, for details about the @samp{--subbook} option.

@code{ebzipinfo} ignores the following options; @samp{--force-overwrite},
@samp{--keep}, @samp{--level}, @samp{--no-overwrite},
@samp{--output-directory}, @samp{--quiet}, @samp{--silence}, @code{--suffix}
and @samp{--test}.

@c ===================================================================
@node Delete a Book, Summary of Options, Information, Top
@chapter Delete a Book

@code{ebzip} doesn't support deletion of a compressed book on a hard
disk.
Please use the @code{rm} command, instead.

@example
% rm -r /dict
@end example

@noindent
Please be careful in this operation.

@c ===================================================================
@node Summary of Options, Comparision Result, Delete a Book, Top
@chapter Summary of @code{ebzip} Options

The @code{ebzip} command supports both traditional single-letter
options and mnemonic long option names.
Long option names are indicated with @samp{--} instead of @samp{-}.
Abbreviations for option names are allowed as long as they are unique.

@table @code
@item -c @var{case}
@itemx --case @var{case}
Output files which have filenames with upper or lower @var{case}
letters.
@var{case} must be @samp{upper} or @samp{lower}.
When this option is not specified, the case of filenames of the output
files comes to be the same as filenames of files in the input book.
This option is ignored when the action is information, or when you
specify the @samp{--test} (@samp{-t}) option.

(@xref{Adjust Filenames}, for more details).

@item -f
@itemx --force-overwrite
Overwrite existed files without confirmation.
This option is ignored when the action is information, or when you
specify the @samp{--test} (@samp{-t}) option.

(@xref{Overwrite Old Files}, for more details).

@item -h
@itemx --help
Output help message to standard out, then exit.

@item -i
@itemx --information
Output compression status of the specified CD-ROM book.

(@xref{Information}, for more details).

@item -k
@itemx --keep
Don't delete an input file when the corresponding output file has
been written.
This option is ignored when the action is information, or when you
specify the @samp{--test} (@samp{-t}) option.

(@xref{Compression Example 2}, for more details).

@item -l @var{integer}
@itemx --level @var{integer}
Specify compression level.
@var{integer} must be @samp{0}, @samp{1}, @samp{2} or @samp{3}.
The level 0 is fastest but least compression method.
The level 3 is slowest but best compression method.
The defalt level is 0.
This option is ignored when the action is uncompression or information.

(@xref{Compression Level}, for more details).

@item -n
@itemx --no-overwrite
Skip existed files without confirmation for overwriting.
This option is ignored when the action is information, or when you
specify the @samp{--test} (@samp{-t}) option.

(@xref{Overwrite Old Files}, for more details).

@item -o @var{directory}
@itemx --output-directory @var{directory}
Specify a directory of output files.
The default is the current directory (@samp{.}).
This option is ignored when the action is information, or when you
specify the @samp{--test} (@samp{-t}) option.

@item -q
@itemx --quiet
@itemx --silence
Supress all information and warning messages.
However, when an output file has already exists, during
compression/uncompresion, @code{ebzip} still asks you whether the output
file may be overwritten or not.
To supress this question, specify the @samp{--force-overwrite} (@samp{-f})
or @samp{--no-overwrite} (@samp{-n}) option.
This option is ignored when the action is uncompression or information.

@item -s @var{suffix}
@itemx --suffix @var{suffix}
Specify the suffix of filenames of output files.
@var{suffix} must be @samp{none}, @samp{dot}, @samp{version} or @samp{both}.
When @var{suffix} is @samp{none}, no suffix is appended.
When @var{suffix} is @samp{dot}, a dot (@samp{.}) is appended.
When @var{suffix} is @samp{version}, a version number 1 (@samp{;1}) is
appended.
When @var{suffix} is @samp{both}, dot and version number 1 (@samp{.;1})
is appended.
If this option is not specified, suffixes of filenames of the output
files comes to be the same as filenames of files in the input book.
This option is ignored when the action is information, or when you
specify the @samp{--test} (@samp{-t}) option.

(@xref{Adjust Filenames}, for more details).

@item -S @var{subbooks}
@itemx --subbook @var{subbooks}
Specify target subbooks to compress, uncompress or output information.
@var{subbooks} must be a list of directory names of subbooks separeted
by a comma (@samp{,}).
By default, all subbooks are specified as target.

(@xref{Partial Compression}, for more details).

@item -t
@itemx --test
Don't write compression/uncompression data to the actual files.
This option is ignored when the action is information.

(@xref{Test}, for more details).

@item -u
@itemx --uncompress
Uncompress a CD-ROM book.

(@pxref{Uncompression}, for more details).

@item -v
@itemx --version
Output version number to standard out, then exit.

@item -z
@itemx --compress
Compress a CD-ROM book.

(@xref{Compression}, for more details).

@end table

@c ===================================================================
@node Comparision Result, Compressed File Format, Summary of Options, Top
@appendix Comparision of Compression Results

Compression result of the @file{START} file in a certain English-Japanese
and Japanese-English dictionary (EBXA):

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .3 .3
@item compression level           @tab  file size        @tab  ratio
@item (original)            @tab  154476544 bytes  @tab  100.0%
@item level 0               @tab  54922039 bytes   @tab  35.6%
@item level 1               @tab  49615791 bytes   @tab  32.1%
@item level 2               @tab  45983464 bytes   @tab  29.8%
@item level 3               @tab  43431397 bytes   @tab  28.1%
@c @item level 4            @tab  41542738 bytes   @tab  26.9%
@item (reference: gzip -6)  @tab  38712247 bytes   @tab  25.0%
@end multitable

Compression result of the @file{START} file in a certain English
dictionary (EBG):

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .3 .3
@item compression level     @tab  file size       @tab  ratio
@item (original)            @tab  55511040 bytes  @tab  100.0%
@item level 0               @tab  25866491 bytes  @tab  46.6%
@item level 1               @tab  24419066 bytes  @tab  44.0%
@item level 2               @tab  23453212 bytes  @tab  42.2%
@item level 3               @tab  22748840 bytes  @tab  41.0%
@c @item level 4            @tab  22139989 bytes  @tab  39.9%
@item (reference: gzip -6)  @tab  20930009 bytes  @tab  37.7%
@end multitable

Compression result of the @file{HONMON} file in a certain Japanese
dictionary (EPWING):

@multitable @columnfractions .4 .3 .3
@item compression level     @tab  file size       @tab  ratio
@item (original)            @tab  23642112 bytes  @tab  100.0%
@item level 0               @tab   9927048 bytes  @tab  42.0%
@item level 1               @tab   9213184 bytes  @tab  39.0%
@item level 2               @tab   8767603 bytes  @tab  37.1%
@item level 3               @tab   8495563 bytes  @tab  35.9%
@c @item level 4            @tab   8336185 bytes  @tab  35.3%
@item (reference: gzip -6)  @tab   8114658 bytes  @tab  34.3%
@end multitable

@c ===================================================================
@node Compressed File Format,  , Comparision Result, Top
@appendix Compressed File Format

This chapter explains details about compressed file format used by
@code{ebzip}.

@menu
* Format Overview::             Overview about Compression File Format
* Data Part::                   Data Part
* Index Part::                  Index Part
* Header Part::                 Header Part
@end menu

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Format Overview, Data Part, Compressed File Format, Compressed File Format
@appendixsec Overview about Compression File Format

The compressed file format has the following features.

@itemize @bullet
@item
independent of CPU type, operating system, and file system.

@item
loss-less compression.@*
You can recover an original file by uncompressing the compressed
file.

@item
four compression levels.@*
You can choose faster or better compression.
@end itemize

A compressed file consists of header, index and data parts.
They are placed in that order.

@example
@group
+--------+-------------+-----------------------------+
| header |    index    |            data             |
+--------+-------------+-----------------------------+
                                                     EOF
@end group
@end example

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Data Part, Index Part, Format Overview, Compressed File Format
@appendixsec Data Part

An orignal file is compressed by the following processes.

At first, @code{ebzip} slices an original file.
Each @dfn{slice} except for the last slice (slice N in the following
picture) has the same size.

@example
@group
+---------------+---------------+--   --+----------+
|    slice 1    |    slice 2    |  ...  | slice N  |
+---------------+---------------+--   --+----------+
                                                   EOF
@end group
@end example

@noindent
Slice size is determined by the compression level
(@pxref{Compression Level}, about compression level):

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@item compression level  @tab  slice size
@item 0                  @tab   2048 bytes
@item 1                  @tab   4096 bytes
@item 2                  @tab   8192 bytes
@item 3                  @tab  16384 bytes
@end multitable

@noindent
Second, if the last slice is shorter than the slice size, @code{ebzip}
extends the last slice to the slice size by padding bytes of 0x00.

@example
@group
                                                    pad 
+---------------+---------------+--   --+---------+-----+
|    slice 1    |    slice 2    |  ...  |    slice N    |
+---------------+---------------+--   --+---------+-----+
                                                        EOF
@end group
@end example

@noindent
Finally, @code{ebzip} compresses each slice into the DEFLATE compressed
data format, described in RFC 1951.
A slice is compressed independently of another slice.
Usually, each compressed slice occupies different size.
If the number of bits of the compressed slice is not a multiple of 8,
1 to 7 bits are padded to the number of bits come to a multiple of 8
at the tail of the compressed slice.
Thus, each compressed slice starts at byte boundary.
The contents of the padded bits are undefined, but the padded bits are
never used.

@example
@group
+------------+----------+--   --+--------------+
| compressed |compressed|  ...  |  compressed  |
|   slice 1  | slice 2  |  ...  |   slice N    |
+------------+----------+--   --+--------------+
@end group
@end example

@noindent
This is a @dfn{data part} of the compressed file format, which consists
of compressed slices.

The padding in the last slice is compressed as a part of the slice.
When @code{ebunzip} recovers the last slice, it uncompresses the slice
and then remove the padding.

When a compressed slice is larger than or equal to slice size, 
@code{ebzip} discards the compressed data of the slice.
In this case, @code{ebzip} records original data as the compressed data
for that slice instead.

If an original file is empty, the data part is not appered in a
compressed file.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Index Part, Header Part, Data Part, Compressed File Format
@appendixsec Index Part

At compression, @code{ebzip} records an @dfn{index} for each compressed
slice.
An index represents a distance betweeen the beginning of the compressed
file to the beginning of a compressed slice.
The unit of the distance is byte.

@example
@group
+---------+---------+--           --+---------+---------+
| index 1 | index 2 |  ...........  | index N |index END|
+---------+---------+--           --+---------+---------+
     |         |                        |         |
 +---+         +----+                   +------+  +-----------+
 V                  V                          V              V
+------------------+------------------+--   --+--------------+
|    compressed    |    compressed    |  ...  |  compressed  |
|      slice 1     |     slice 2      |  ...  |   slice N    |
+------------------+------------------+--   --+--------------+
@end group
@end example

@noindent
Each index takes from 2 to 4 bytes, according with size of an original
file:

@multitable @columnfractions .7 .3
@item original file size             @tab  index size
@item        0 ...      65535 bytes  @tab  2 bytes
@item    65535 ...   16777215 bytes  @tab  3 bytes
@item 16777216 ... 4294967295 bytes  @tab  4 bytes
@end multitable

All multi-byte numbers in the indexes stored with the most significant
byte first.
For example, 0x1234 is stored as follows.
First byte holds 0x12, and second byte holds 0x34.

@example
@group
+---------+---------+
|0001 0010|0011 1000|
+---------+---------+
  (0x12)    (0x34)
@end group
@end example

The index part begins with the index for the compressed slice 1, and 
the index for the compressed slice 2 follows it.
The index for compressed slice N is followed by the index for END;
index for the next byte of the end of the compressed slice N.
This index also represents the size of the compressed file.

@example
@group
+---------+---------+--       --+---------+---------+
| index 1 | index 2 |  .......  | index N |index END|
+---------+---------+--       --+---------+---------+
@end group
@end example

Size of each compressed slice can be calculated by the indexes, because
next index of the slice @var{p} represents the next byte of the end of
the slice @var{p}.
If its size is equal to the slice size, the data of the slice is not
compressed accutually.

If an original file is empty, the index part has only one index.
The index represents the size of the compressed file.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Header Part,  , Index Part, Compressed File Format
@appendixsec Header Part

A header part occupies 22 bytes.
It consists of the following fields.

@example
@group
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
|   magic ID   |*1| *2  |    file size    | Adler-32  |   mtime   |
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21

*1: zip mode and compression level
*2: reserved area
@end group
@end example

@table @code
@item magic ID (5 bytes)
It has the fixed value; 0x45, 0x42, 0x5a, 0x69, 0x70 (@samp{EBZip}
in ASCII string).

@item zip mode (4 bits of the most significant bit side)
This identifies the compression mode.
In EB Library version @value{VERSION}, only 1 (0001 in binary digits)
can be prescribed as this version.

@item compression level (4 bits of the least-significant-bit side)
This identifies the compression level.

@item reserved area (2 bytes)
Reserved but not used.
It is filled with 0x0000.

@item file size (6 bytes)
This contains the size of the original (uncompressed) file.

@item Adler-32 (4 bytes)
This is a checksum value of the uncompressed data computed according
to Adler-32 algorithm described in RFC 1950.

@item mtime (4 bytes)
This gives the most recent modification time of the original file.
This value is the time in seconds since 00:00:00 GMT, Jan. 1, 1970.
@end table

Both @code{zip mode} and @code{compression level} are packed into
the 5th byte in the header.
@code{zip mode} includes a most siginificant bit, and
@code{compression level} includes least-significant-bit.
If @code{zip mode} is 1 and @code{compression level} is 2, then
5th byte of the header is 0x12.

@example
@group
 MSB                         LSB
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
| 0   0   0   1   0   0   1   0 | = 0x12
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
   (zip mode)   | (compression level)
@end group
@end example

All multi-byte numbers in the header are stored with the most
significant byte first.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@contents
@bye
